README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="./logo.svg" width="150px"></p>

# Vue Whiteroom

### white what?

`vue-whiteroom` is a javascript web-application which aim is to display vue components in a safely sealed environment where they can be manipulated while developing them.

> I personally think that the "whiteroom" vocabulary is more appropriate, since nowadays not so many people use storybook to display user stories, rather as a safe way to isolate components, as if they were bacterias to observe ; which explains the name of the project. The UI may not look fancy but the main idea behind it is to provide the maximum space available to display your component, as it is the main function of this application. Panels come on overlay and are foldable on purpose ; that said, i'd be more than happy to have some inputs to improve.

#### features

- [x] hot reload
- [x] _experiments_ (like "story objects") as plain Vue files
- [x] automatically generated knobs from `props` inspection
- [x] `props` can be extended to enhance knobs easily
- [x] multiple _layouts_
- [x] multiple _devices_
- [x] extensible _devices_ and _layouts_ declaration
- [ ] multi level navigation

### why not reuse?

while [storybook](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook) is an incredible project, it has been written with React for React. The abstraction layer is great, but doesn't work well with Vue.js (as for now, at the very least). An other project, [vue-play](https://github.com/vue-play/vue-play), was completing the task, but lacked of "knobs", and also doesn't look maintained for a year or so.

### under the hood?

This is a basic "storybook" application, so the architecture is quite similar. The application is split in two parts, one rendered in the main frame, and the second one rendered in an iframe.

Your components are rendered in the iframe, and fed with property values from the url of the iframe. The main application has some knobs which are serialized and passed to the iframe's url, and voila.

### how to run?

1. Install it from npm `npm install --save-dev vue-whiteroom`
2. Add `./node_modules/vue-whiteroom/bin/whiteroom` to your npm scripts
3. Use the default entrypoint `./experiments` in your project

A basic entrypoint looks like this :

```js
import { inspect } from 'vue-whiteroom/api'

import Demo1 from './demo1.vue'
inspect(Demo1)
```

### `vue-whiteroom/api` functions

- `inspect(VueObject, { path = VueObject.__file__, name = path, description = null })` : this function registers a new object to be inspected. If you come from other projects such as vue-play or storybook, it's almost similar as `.add(() => VueObject)`

- `device(name, css)` : this function adds the `name` device in the devices definition. `css` must contain at least `width` and `height` as normal css declaration.

- `layout(name, VueObject)` : this function adds the `name` layout in the list of available layouts. see next chapter about how to write a proper layout (there's a trick)

- `log(...parameters)` : this function will pass `parameters` to the cute log box, instead of using `console.log`. It's not overriden by default on purpose, but you can do it so easily it's almost mandatory.

    ```
    import { log } from 'vue-whiteroom/api'
    const _log = console.log;
    console.log = function() {
      log(Array.from(arguments))
      _log.apply(console, arguments)
    }
    ```

- `wrap(VueComponent)` : this function will return an auto-generated Vue file to handle your component. It will pass props along (but can't really guess for enums) ; injections will be passed, events will be _all_ listened to, and public functions (not starting with `_` or `$`) will be automatically registered as trigger.

### layouts

The real component will be passed to you in a `proxy` prop, along with props. Injections are automatically resolved, so there's no so much other things to care about.

You'll need to make it `abstract` and `functional` to avoid messing with parenting and connections with the rest of the application. After that, render the child as many times as necessary in the `render(h)` function. Don't forget to pass `children` along, as it contains the default `slot` string.

Here's the most basic example :

```
<script>
export default {
  abstract: true,
  functional: true,

  render(h, { props, children }) {
    const { child, ...options } = props.proxy

    return h(child, options, children)
  }
}
</script>
```

Or, if you wanted something more sophisticated :

```
<script>
export default {
  abstract: true,
  functional: true,

  render(h, { props, children }) {
    const { child, ...options } = props.proxy
    const instances = Array(4).fill('div')
                              .map(div => h(div, null, [ h(child, options, children) ]))

    return h('div', { class: 'foolayout' }, instances)
  }
}
</script>

<style lang="stylus" scoped>
.foolayout
  position absolute
  width 100%
  height 100%

  & > div
    position absolute
    width 50%
    height 50%

  & > div:nth-child(2n + 1)
    left 50%

  & > div:nth-child(2) ~ div
    top 50%
</style>
```

Commit message:

add group/navigation to doc

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="./logo.svg" width="150px"></p>

# Vue Whiteroom

### white what?

`vue-whiteroom` is a javascript web-application which aim is to display vue components in a safely sealed environment where they can be manipulated while developing them.

> I personally think that the "whiteroom" vocabulary is more appropriate, since nowadays not so many people use storybook to display user stories, rather as a safe way to isolate components, as if they were bacterias to observe ; which explains the name of the project. The UI may not look fancy but the main idea behind it is to provide the maximum space available to display your component, as it is the main function of this application. Panels come on overlay and are foldable on purpose ; that said, i'd be more than happy to have some inputs to improve.

#### features

- [x] hot reload
- [x] _experiments_ (like "story objects") as plain Vue files
- [x] automatically generated knobs from `props` inspection
- [x] `props` can be extended to enhance knobs easily
- [x] multiple _layouts_
- [x] multiple _devices_
- [x] extensible _devices_ and _layouts_ declaration
- [x] multi level navigation

### why not reuse?

while [storybook](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook) is an incredible project, it has been written with React for React. The abstraction layer is great, but doesn't work well with Vue.js (as for now, at the very least). An other project, [vue-play](https://github.com/vue-play/vue-play), was completing the task, but lacked of "knobs", and also doesn't look maintained for a year or so.

### under the hood?

This is a basic "storybook" application, so the architecture is quite similar. The application is split in two parts, one rendered in the main frame, and the second one rendered in an iframe.

Your components are rendered in the iframe, and fed with property values from the url of the iframe. The main application has some knobs which are serialized and passed to the iframe's url, and voila.

### how to run?

1. Install it from npm `npm install --save-dev vue-whiteroom`
2. Add `./node_modules/vue-whiteroom/bin/whiteroom` to your npm scripts
3. Use the default entrypoint `./experiments` in your project

A basic entrypoint looks like this :

```js
import { inspect } from 'vue-whiteroom/api'

import Demo1 from './demo1.vue'
inspect(Demo1)
```

### `vue-whiteroom/api` functions

- `inspect(VueObject, { path = VueObject.__file__, group = '', name = path, description = null })` : this function registers a new object to be inspected. If you come from other projects such as vue-play or storybook, it's almost similar as `.add(() => VueObject)`. The "group" property provides a simple way to add foldable navigation by categories.

- `device(name, css)` : this function adds the `name` device in the devices definition. `css` must contain at least `width` and `height` as normal css declaration.

- `layout(name, VueObject)` : this function adds the `name` layout in the list of available layouts. see next chapter about how to write a proper layout (there's a trick)

- `log(...parameters)` : this function will pass `parameters` to the cute log box, instead of using `console.log`. It's not overriden by default on purpose, but you can do it so easily it's almost mandatory.

    ```
    import { log } from 'vue-whiteroom/api'
    const _log = console.log;
    console.log = function() {
      log(Array.from(arguments))
      _log.apply(console, arguments)
    }
    ```

- `wrap(VueComponent)` : this function will return an auto-generated Vue file to handle your component. It will pass props along (but can't really guess for enums) ; injections will be passed, events will be _all_ listened to, and public functions (not starting with `_` or `$`) will be automatically registered as trigger.

### layouts

The real component will be passed to you in a `proxy` prop, along with props. Injections are automatically resolved, so there's no so much other things to care about.

You'll need to make it `abstract` and `functional` to avoid messing with parenting and connections with the rest of the application. After that, render the child as many times as necessary in the `render(h)` function. Don't forget to pass `children` along, as it contains the default `slot` string.

Here's the most basic example :

```
<script>
export default {
  abstract: true,
  functional: true,

  render(h, { props, children }) {
    const { child, ...options } = props.proxy

    return h(child, options, children)
  }
}
</script>
```

Or, if you wanted something more sophisticated :

```
<script>
export default {
  abstract: true,
  functional: true,

  render(h, { props, children }) {
    const { child, ...options } = props.proxy
    const instances = Array(4).fill('div')
                              .map(div => h(div, null, [ h(child, options, children) ]))

    return h('div', { class: 'foolayout' }, instances)
  }
}
</script>

<style lang="stylus" scoped>
.foolayout
  position absolute
  width 100%
  height 100%

  & > div
    position absolute
    width 50%
    height 50%

  & > div:nth-child(2n + 1)
    left 50%

  & > div:nth-child(2) ~ div
    top 50%
</style>
```
